### Mock Exams

# Mock Exam 1

# 1. Task
Deploy a pod named `nginx-pod` using the `nginx:alpine` image.
# 1. Solution.1 (by command)
kubectl run nginx-pod --image=nginx:alpine

# 2. Task 
Deploy a messaging pod using the `redis:alpine` image with the labels set to `tier=msg`.
# 2. Solution (by command)
kubectl run messaging --image=redis:alpine --labels=tier=msg

# 3. Task
Create a namespace named `apx-x9984574`
# 3. Solution
kubectl create namespace apx-x9984574

# 4. Task
Get the list of `nodes` in JSON format and store it in a file at /opt/outputs/nodes-z3444kd9.json
# 4. Solution
kubectl get nodes -o json > /opt/outputs/nodes-z3444kd9.json

# 5. Task
Create a service `messaging-service` to expose the `messaging` application within the cluster on port `6379`. Use imperative commands.
# 5. Solution
Check that pod messaging exist
kubectl get pods
Expose pod
kubectl expose pod messaging --port=6379 --name messaging-service

# 6. Task
Create a deployment named `hr-web-app` using the image `kodekloud/webapp-color` with `2` replicas.
# 6. Solution
kubectl create deployment hr-web-app --image=kodekloud/webapp-color --replicas=2

# 7. Task
Create a static pod named `static-busybox` on the `controlplane node` that uses the `busybox` image and the command `sleep 1000`.
# 7. Solution
kubectl run static-busybox --image=busybox --command sleep 1000 --dry-run=client -o yaml > static-busybox.yaml
cp static-busybox.yaml /etc/kubernetes/manifests/

# 8. Task
Create a POD in the `finance` namespace named `temp-bus` with the image `redis:alpine`.
# 8. Solution
kubectl run temp-bus --image=redis:alpine -n finance

# 9. Task
A new application `orange` is deployed. There is something wrong with it. Identify and fix the issue.
# 9. Solution
option 1 edit pod, fix wrong value and replace it with temp manifest after error:
kubectl edit pod orange 
kubectl replace -f /tmp/kubectl-edit-dyj38.yaml --force

option 2 get pod manifest to file, fix it, delete old pod, create new pod.
kubectl get pod orange -o yaml > orange.yaml
kubectl delete pod orange
kubectl create -f orange.yaml

# 10. Task
Expose the `hr-web-app` as service `hr-web-app-service` application on port `30082` on the nodes on the cluster. The web application listens on port `8080`.
# 10. Solution
# check the deploy exist
kubectl get deploy hr-web-app
kubectl expose deployment  hr-web-app --name hr-web-app-service --type NodePort --port 8080 --dry-run=client -o yaml > deploy-service.yaml
# edit file and add nodePort:30082
kubectl apply -f deploy-service.yaml

# 11. Task
Use JSON PATH query to retrieve the `osImages` of all the nodes and store it in a file `/opt/outputs/nodes_os_x43kj56.txt`
The `osImages` are under the `nodeInfo` section under `status` of each node.
# 11. Solution
kubectl get nodes -o jsonpath='{.items[*].status.nodeInfo.osImage}' > /opt/outputs/nodes_os_x43kj56.txt

# 12. Task
Create a Persistent Volume with the given specification.
Volume Name: pv-analytics
Storage: 100Mi
Access modes: ReadWriteMany
Host Path: /pv/data-analytics
# 12. Solution
# Create manifest file:
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolume
metadata:
  name: pv-analytics
spec:
  capacity:
    storage: 100Mi
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteMany
  hostPath:
      path: /pv/data-analytics

