### Mock Exams

# Mock Exam 3

# 1. Task
Upgrade the current version of kubernetes from `1.19` to `1.20.0` exactly using the `kubeadm` utility. Make sure that the upgrade is carried out one node at a time starting with the master node. To minimize downtime, the deployment `gold-nginx` should be rescheduled on an alternate node before upgrading each node.
Upgrade `controlplane` node first and drain node `node01` before upgrading it. 
Pods for `gold-nginx` should run on the `controlplane` node subsequently.k
# 1. Solution

On Controlplane Node:

kubectl drain controlplane --ignore-daemonsets
apt-get install kubeadm=1.20.0-00
kubeadm upgrade plan
kubeadm upgrade apply v1.20.0
apt-get install kubelet=1.20.0-00
systemctl daemon-reload
systemctl restart kubelet
kubectl uncordon controlplane
kubectl drain node01 --ignore-daemonsets

On Worker Node:

apt-get update
apt-get install kubeadm=1.20.0-00
kubeadm upgrade node
apt-get install kubelet=1.20.0-00
systemctl daemon-reload
systemctl restart kubelet     

Back on Controlplane Node:

kubectl uncordon node01
kubectl get pods -o wide | grep gold 

(make sure this is scheduled on controlplane node)


# 2. Task 
Print the names of all deployments in the `admin2406` namespace in the following format:
DEPLOYMENT CONTAINER_IMAGE READY_REPLICAS NAMESPACE
The data should be sorted by the increasing order of the deployment name.

Example:
DEPLOYMENT  CONTAINER_IMAGE  READY_REPLICAS  NAMESPACE
deploy0     nginx:alpine     1               admin2406

Write the result to the file `/opt/admin2406_data`
# 2. Solution
kubectl -n admin2406 get deployment -o custom-columns=DEPLOYMENT:.metadata.name,CONTAINER_IMAGE:.spec.template.spec.containers[].image,READY_REPLICAS:.status.readyReplicas,NAMESPACE:.metadata.namespace --sort-by=.metadata.name > /opt/admin2406_data

# 3. Task
A kubeconfig file called admin.kubeconfig has been created in /root/CKA. There is something wrong with the configuration. Troubleshoot and fix it.
# 3. Solution
check server k8s port
cat  /root/CKA/admin.kubeconfig | grep server:
change server k8s port to right value
sed -i 's/4380/6443/g' /root/CKA/admin.kubeconfig


# 4. Task
In `default` namespace create a new deployment called `nginx-deploy`, with image `nginx:1.16` and `1` replica. 
Next upgrade the deployment to version `1.17` using rolling update.
# 4. Solution
kubectl create deployment nginx-deploy --image=nginx:1.16
kubectl set image deployment/nginx-deploy nginx=nginx:1.17 --record

# 5. Task
A new deployment called `alpha-mysql` has been deployed in the `alpha` namespace. However, the pods are not running. Troubleshoot and fix the issue.

The deployment should make use of the persistent volume `alpha-pv` to be mounted at `/var/lib/mysql` and should use the environment variable `MYSQL_ALLOW_EMPTY_PASSWORD=1` to make use of an empty root password.
Important: Do not alter the persistent volume.
# 5. Solution
apply manifest for not created pvc which pod used.
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
metadata:
  name: mysql-alpha-pvc
  namespace: alpha
spec:
  accessModes:
  - ReadWriteOnce
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 1Gi
  storageClassName: slow

# 6. Task
Take the backup of ETCD at the location `/opt/etcd-backup.db` on the controlplane node.
# 6. Solution
ETCDCTL_API='3' etcdctl snapshot save \
--cacert=/etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.crt \
--cert=/etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server.crt \
--key=/etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server.key \
--endpoints=127.0.0.1:2379 /opt/etcd-backup2.db
# check db snap
ETCDCTL_API=3 etcdctl snapshot status /opt/etcd-backup.db
ETCDCTL_API=3 etcdctl --write-out=table snapshot status /opt/etcd-backup.db


# 7. Task
Create a pod called `secret-1401` in the `admin1401` namespace using the `busybox` image. The container within the pod should be called `secret-admin` and should `sleep` for `4800` seconds.

The container should mount a `read-only` secret volume called `secret-volume` at the path `/etc/secret-volume`. The secret being mounted has already been created for you and is called `dotfile-secret`.
# 7. Solution
create template for pod
kubectl run secret-1401 --namespace=admin1401 --image=busybox --command sleep 4800 --dry-run=client -o yaml > pod.yaml

edit pod, add 
spec:
  containers:
  ...
  name: secret-admin
    volumeMounts:
    - name: secret-volume
      readOnly: true
      mountPath: "/etc/secret-volume"
  volumes:
  - name: secret-volume
    secret:
      secretName: dotfile-secret

kubectl apply -f pod.yaml