### Pre-materials - Networking, routing, gateways, cni k8s etc
# Switching. To see the interface on the host system
ip link
# To see the IP Address interfaces.
ip addr
# Routing. To see the existing routing table on the host system.
route
ip route show
# or
ip route list
# To add entries into the routing table.
ip route add 192.168.1.0/24 via 192.168.2.1
# Gateways. To add a default route.
ip route add default via 192.168.2.1
# To check the IP forwarding is enabled on the host.
cat /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward
0
echo 1 > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward
# Enable packet forwarding for IPv4.
cat /etc/sysctl.conf
# Uncomment the line
net.ipv4.ip_forward=1
# To view the sysctl variables.
sysctl -a 
# To reload the sysctl configuration.
sysctl --system
# Links
https://github.com/kodekloudhub/certified-kubernetes-administrator-course/blob/master/docs/09-Networking/02-Pre-requisite-Switching-Routing-Gateways.md



### Pre-materials - DNS, CoreDNS
# commands, flow
# Name Resolution
# With help of the ping command. Checking the reachability of the IP Addr on the Network.
ping 172.17.0.64
ping web
output - ping: unknown host web
cat >> /etc/hosts
172.17.0.64  web
ping web
ssh web
curl http://web
# DNS configuration file at /etc/resolv.conf.
cat /etc/resolv.conf
nameserver 127.0.0.53
nameserver   8.8.8.8
options edns0
# To change the order of dns resolution, we need to do changes into the /etc/nsswitch.conf file.
cat /etc/nsswitch.conf
hosts:          files dns
networks:       files
# DNS tools
nslookup www.google.com
www.google.com
# Links
https://github.com/kodekloudhub/certified-kubernetes-administrator-course/blob/master/docs/09-Networking/03-Pre-requisite-DNS.md
#  CoreDNS. Installation.
wget https://github.com/coredns/coredns/releases/download/v1.7.0/coredns_1.7.0_linux_amd64.tgz
tar -xzvf coredns_1.7.0_linux_amd64.tgz
# Run the executable file
./coredns
# Configuring the hosts file. Adding entries into the /etc/hosts file.
# CoreDNS will pick the ips and names from the /etc/hosts file on the server.
cat > /etc/hosts
192.168.1.10    web
192.168.1.11    db
192.168.1.15    web-1
192.168.1.16    db-1
192.168.1.21    web-2
192.168.1.22    db-2
Adding into the Corefile
cat > Corefile
. {
	hosts   /etc/hosts
}
# Run the executable file
./coredns
# Links
https://github.com/kodekloudhub/certified-kubernetes-administrator-course/blob/master/docs/09-Networking/04-Pre-requisite-CoreDNS.md



### Pre-materials Network namespaces (working with containers)
# Process Namespace 
# On the container
ps aux      
# On the host
ps aux 
# Network Namespace
route
rp
# Create Network Namespace
ip netns add red
ip netns add blue
# List the network namespace
ip netns
# Exec in Network Namespace
# List the interfaces on the host
ip link
# Exec inside the network namespace
ip netns exec red ip link
ip netns exec blue ip link
# You can try with other options as well. Both works the same.
ip -n red link
# ARP and Routing Table
# On the host
arp
# On the Network Namespace
ip netns exec red arp
ip netns exec blue arp
# On the host
route
# On the Network Namespace
ip netns exec red route
ip netns exec blue route
# Virtual Cable
# To create a virtual cable
ip link add veth-red type veth peer name veth-blue
# To attach with the network namespaces
ip link set veth-red netns red
ip link set veth-blue netns blue
# To add an IP address
ip -n red addr add 192.168.15.1/24 dev veth-red
ip -n blue addr add 192.168.15.2/24 dev veth-blue
# To turn it up ns interfaces
ip -n red link set veth-red up
ip -n blue link set veth-blue up
# Check the reachability
ip netns exec red ping 192.168.15.2
ip netns exec red arp
ip netns exec blue arp
# Delete the link.
ip -n red link del veth-red
# On the host
arp
# Linux Bridge
# Create a network namespace
ip netns add red
ip netns add blue
# To create a internal virtual bridge network, we add a new interface to the host
ip link add v-net-0 type bridge
# Display in the host
ip link
ip link set dev v-net-0 up
# To connect network namespace to the bridge. Creating a virtual cabel
ip link add veth-red type veth peer name veth-red-br
ip link add veth-blue type veth peer name veth-blue-br
# Set with the network namespaces
ip link set veth-red netns red
ip link set veth-blue netns blue
ip link set veth-red-br master v-net-0
ip link set veth-blue-br master v-net-0
# To add an IP address
ip -n red addr add 192.168.15.1/24 dev veth-red
ip -n blue addr add 192.168.15.2/24 dev veth-blue
# To turn it up ns interfaces
ip -n red link set veth-red up
ip -n blue link set veth-blue up
# To add an IP address
ip addr add 192.168.15.5/24 dev v-net-0
# Turn it up added interfaces on the host
ip link set dev veth-red-br up
ip link set dev veth-blue-br up
# On the host
ping 192.168.15.1
# On the ns
ip netns exec blue ping 192.168.1.1
ip netns exec blue route
ip netns exec blue ip route add 192.168.1.0/24 via 192.168.15.5
# Check the IP Address of the host
ip a
ip netns exec blue ping 192.168.1.1
iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING -s 192.168.15.0/24 -j MASQUERADE
ip netns exec blue ping 192.168.1.1
ip netns exec blue ping 8.8.8.8
ip netns exec blue route
ip netns exec blue ip route add default via 192.168.15.5
ip netns exec blue ping 8.8.8.8
# Adding port forwarding rule to the iptables
iptables -t nat -A PREROUTING --dport 80 --to-destination 192.168.15.2:80 -j DNAT
iptables -nvL -t nat
# Links 
https://github.com/kodekloudhub/certified-kubernetes-administrator-course/blob/master/docs/09-Networking/05-Pre-requisite-Network-Namespace.md



### Docker Networking 
# None Network
docker run --network none nginx
# Host Network
docker run --network host nginx
# Bridge Network
docker run --network bridge nginx
# List the Docker Network
docker network ls
# To view the Network Device on the Host
ip link
# or
ip link show docker0
# With the help of ip link add command to type set bridge to docker0
ip link add docker0 type bridge
# To view the IP Addr of the interface docker0
ip addr
# or
ip addr show docker0
# Run the command to create a Docker Container
docker run nginx
# To list the Network Namespace
ip netns
# Inspect the Docker Container
docker inspect <container-id>
# To view the interface attached with the local bridge docker0
ip link
# with -n options with the network namespace to view the other end of the interface
ip -n 04acb487a641 link
# To view the IP Addr assigned to this interface 
ip -n 04acb487a641 addr
# Port Mapping
# Creating a docker container.
docker run -itd --name nginx nginx
d74ca9d57c1d8983db2c590df2fdd109e07e1972d6b361a6ecad8a942af5bf7e
# Inspect the docker container to view the IPAddress.
docker inspect nginx | grep -w IPAddress
# Accessing web page with the curl command.
curl --head  http://172.18.0.6:80
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx/1.19.2
# Port Mapping to docker container
docker run -itd --name nginx -p 8080:80 nginx
# Inspecting docker container to view the assgined ports.
docker inspect nginx | grep -w -A5 Ports
# To view the IP Addr of the host system
ip a
# Accessing nginx page with curl command
curl --head http://192.168.10.11:8080
# Configuring iptables nat rules
iptables \
    -t nat \
    -A PREROUTING \
    -j DNAT \
    --dport 8080 \
    --to-destination 80
iptables \
    -t nat \
    -A DOCKER \
    -j DNAT \
    --dport 8080 \
    --to-destination 172.18.0.6:80
# List the Iptables rules
iptables -nvL -t nat


### CNI pre-materials
# CNI include core concepts of network namespaces:
- Create Network Namespace
- Create Bridge Network/Interface
- Create vEth Pairs (Pipe, Virtual Cable)
- Attach vEth to Namespace
- Attach other vEth to Bridge
- Assign IP Adress
- Bring the interfaces up
- Enable NAT - IP Masquerade
# Third Party Network Plugin Providers
- Weave
- Calico
- Flannel
- Cilium
# View the CNI Network Plugins
ls /opt/cni/bin/
# Links
https://github.com/kodekloudhub/certified-kubernetes-administrator-course/blob/master/docs/09-Networking/07-Pre-requisite-CNI.md


### Pre-requisite Cluster Networking
# IP and Hostname
hostname 
# To view the IP addr of the system
ip a
# Set the hostname
hostnamectl set-hostname <host-name>
exec bash
# View the Listening Ports of the system
netstat -nltp
# Check clients connections to etcd on port (2379/2380)
# 2380 is only for etcd peer-to-peer connectivity. When you have multiple controlplane nodes.
netstat -anp | grep etcd | grep <2380> | wc -l
# View MAC of node from master
arp <node01>
# k8s components ports(need to be opened):
https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/kubeadm/install-kubeadm/#check-required-ports
# k8s networking official doc link:
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/networking/



### Pod Networking
# All bunnch off commmands we con use through CNI by one or two command
# Links to network comands:
https://github.com/kodekloudhub/certified-kubernetes-administrator-course/blob/master/docs/09-Networking/10-Pod-Networking.md
# CNI plugins help us to create all network configuration for pods automatically, it's very useful when we fox example create and delete !thousands of pods every minutes.


### CNI for k8s
# Configuring CNI
net-1
# Check the status of the Kubelet Service
systemctl status kubelet.service
# View Kubelet Options
ps -aux | grep kubelet
# To check the all supportable plugins available in the /opt/cni/bin directory.
ls /opt/cni/bin
# To check the cni plugins which kubelet needs to be used.
ls /etc/cni/net.d
# Links 
https://github.com/kodekloudhub/certified-kubernetes-administrator-course/blob/master/docs/09-Networking/11-CNI-in-Kubernetes.md
# Supported CNI plugins


### CNI weaveworks
# Deploy Weave
# Installing weave net onto the Kubernetes cluster with a single command.
kubectl apply -f "https://cloud.weave.works/k8s/net?k8s-version=$(kubectl version | base64 | tr -d '\n')"
# Weave Peers
kubectl get pods -n kube-system
# View the logs of Weave Pod's
kubectl logs weave-net-tb9tz weave -n kube-system 
# View the default route in the Pod
kubectl run test --image=busybox --command -- sleep 4500
kubectl exec test -- ip route
# Links 
https://github.com/kodekloudhub/certified-kubernetes-administrator-course/blob/master/docs/09-Networking/12-CNI-weave.md


### ipam (IP assign manager) weavewroks
# custom script but plugin it's BP
ip = get_free_ip_from_file()
ip -n <ns> addr add ...
ip -n <ns> addr route ...
ip-list.txt
IP STATUS POD
...
# config custom script plugin 
cat /etc/cni/net.d/net-script.conf
# Best Practice - is used plugins for DHCP IPAM like weaveworks
# Plugin auto assign IP from subnet 10.32.0.1 > 10.47.255.254 (1,048,574 IP addresses)
# Link
https://github.com/kodekloudhub/certified-kubernetes-administrator-course/blob/master/docs/09-Networking/15-ipam-weave.md

### Service Networking
# To create the service
kubectl create -f clusterIP.yaml
# To get the Additional Information
kubectl get pods -o wide
# To get the Service
kubectl get service
NAME            TYPE        CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)        AGE
kubernetes      ClusterIP   10.96.0.1       <none>        443/TCP        5m22s
local-cluster   ClusterIP   10.101.67.139   <none>        80/TCP         3m
nodeport-wide   NodePort    10.102.29.204   <none>        80:30016/TCP   2m
# To check the Service Cluster IP Range
ps -aux | grep kube-apiserver
# To check the rules created by kube-proxy in the iptables
iptables -L -t nat | grep local-cluster
# To check the logs of kube-proxy
# May this file location is vary depends on your installation process.
cat /var/log/kube-proxy.log

### DNS in kubernetes
# DNS template for pod in k8s
<POD-IP-ADDRESS>.<namespace-name>.pod.cluster.local

# Pod is located in a default namespace.example.
10-244-1-10.default.pod.cluster.local

# DNS template for svc in k8s
<service-name>.<namespace-name>.svc.cluster.local

# Service is located in a default namespace
web-service.default.svc.cluster.local

### CoreDNS for k8s
# CoreDNS Configuration File
kubectl describe cm coredns -n kube-system

Corefile:
.:53 {
    errors
    health {       lameduck 5s
    }
    ready
    kubernetes cluster.local in-addr.arpa ip6.arpa {
       pods insecure
       fallthrough in-addr.arpa ip6.arpa
       ttl 30
    }
    prometheus :9153
    forward . /etc/resolv.conf
    cache 30
    loop
    reload
}

# To view Configuration into the kubelet
cat /var/lib/kubelet/config.yaml | grep -A2  clusterDNS
clusterDNS:
- 10.96.0.10
clusterDomain: cluster.local

# To view the fully qualified domain name
# With the host command, we will get fully qualified domain name (FQDN).
host web-service 
web-service.default.svc.cluster.local has address 10.106.112.101

host web-service.default
web-service.default.svc.cluster.local has address 10.106.112.101

host web-service.default.svc
web-service.default.svc.cluster.local has address 10.106.112.101

host web-service.default.svc.cluster.local
web-service.default.svc.cluster.local has address 10.106.112.101

# To view the /etc/resolv.conf file
kubectl run -it --rm --restart=Never test-pod --image=busybox -- cat /etc/resolv.conf

nameserver 10.96.0.10
search default.svc.cluster.local svc.cluster.local cluster.local
options ndots:5
pod "test-pod" deleted

# make nslookup form pod and redirect output to file. example.
kubectl exec -it hr -- nslookup mysql.payroll > /root/CKA/nslookup.out


### Ingress
# Ingress components by link
https://github.com/kodekloudhub/certified-kubernetes-administrator-course/blob/master/docs/09-Networking/22-Ingress.md

# Create ingress file from dry-run. Example.
kubectl expose -n ingress-space deployment ingress-controller --type=NodePort --port=80 --name=ingress --dry-run=client -o yaml > ingress.yaml


# Now, in k8s v1.20+ we can create an Ingress resource from the imperative way like this:
kubectl create ingress <ingress-name> --rule="host/path=service:port"
# example: 
kubectl create ingress ingress-test --rule="<wear.my-online-store.com>/<wear*>=<wear-service>:<80>
# example 2 with anno and dry-tun
kubectl -n critical-space create ingress pay-ingress --rule="/pay*=pay-service:8282" --annotation nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/rewrite-target=/ --dry-run=client -o yaml > ingress.yaml

kubectl -n app-space create ingress app-ingress \
--rule="/wear*=wear-service:8080" \
--rule="/watch*=video-service:8080" \
--annotation nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/rewrite-target=/ \
--dry-run=client -o yaml > ingress.yaml

# Ingress – Annotations and rewrite-target
# e.g.
http://<ingress-service>:<ingress-port>/watch –> 
http://<watch-service>:<port>/

http://<ingress-service>:<ingress-port>/wear –> 
http://<wear-service>:<port>/
# Without the rewrite-target option
http://<ingress-service>:<ingress-port>/watch –> 
http://<watch-service>:<port>/watch

http://<ingress-service>:<ingress-port>/wear –> 
http://<wear-service>:<port>/wear
# App don't have root path /watch, /wear but /
# That's we need rewrite /path to /
...
name: test-ingress
...
annotations:
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/rewrite-target: /
...

